# SimpleWebGames
A collection of simple games built using HTML5 and Javascript. 

These projects were created as personal challenges.  The only tools available to me when working on these were notepad, Internet Explorer, and a minified jQuery library.  I had no access to online knowledge bases when working on these as well.

# Chess:
A web based chess game using Javascript and HTML5 canvas. Current implementation is local multiplayer only, but I have planned to expand this project out to be a multiplayer chess game. Additionally, while the game will verify whether the kings are in check, currently neither checkmate nor win states are implemented, allowing for an king to be captured and the game to continue.  Additionally, there is currently no art, so instead there are abbreviated names of the pieces drawn on the board.  Also, while clicking the pieces will highlight available moves based on rules, there is currently no way to drag and drop pieces.

I plan to expand upon this project further. Future plans for this game are to expand upon and split the code into both a client-side HTML/Javascript portion and a server side Node.JS portion.  The game clients will connect via websockets to a server created specifically for that game.  I also plan to implement an account system so that players can connect and find games.  I am considering using Wordpress for the account portion in order to save time and increase security and compatability.  

Due to how the game builds the playing field, I also plan to make the same code work for games like Checkers, and even introduce custom game modes that allow different combinations of chess pieces, as well as a four-player chess mode.  When the game creates the board, it uses a string of characters to determine the layout, where each character indicates what piece is on that space, or if there is an empty space.  This can be easily expanded upon by adding additional characters for pieces outside of normal chess rules.

# Puzzle:
A puzzle game built using HTML5 and Javascript.  The page will grab whatever image is named puzzle.jpg within the same folder (in the sample, the image is a free-use stock image from [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/en/tartan-track-career-runway-2678544/)).  The picture gets broken into squares that will snap together when they are close enough.

This project works well enough, but it is a simple implementation that has many drawbacks.  First, the pieces that snap together are still individual pieces.  Moving a large section of puzzle pieces that have snapped together will sometimes cause some lag due to the code needing to move many items at once.  Because of how the pieces are cut, there is not a lot of visual indication of where pieces go, and often similar pieces are difficult to distinguish, and it becomes a matter of trying every piece with every other piece until two snap together.  When the game creates the pieces, it layers them on the Z axis first left to right, then top to bottom.  So the top-left piece will be the lowest in the stack, followed by the next piece to the right, then the next, and when it reaches the end of the first line, it starts again from the left in the next row.  This creates a unique problem where it's possible to find where a piece should go based on whether it goes over or under other pieces.  Each piece also contains the entire image, and just limits what is visible to a small section of the image.  Due to how this is coded, this means there are 300 copies of the same image at any given time.  Finally, the image must be 1000 by 750 pixels, or else it will be cut off due to the hard coded sizes.

In all, this project was fun, but has many drawbacks that I was not able to overcome using the tools I had available.
